 We can have events anywhere, and these events can bring participants together. Underlying the architecture of this code is the idea that space should belong to the people who occupy it most often, not only the people who pay for it at a distance.

Learning new programming languages is always a challenge, as is enacting a pragmatic device from the perspective of art theory. There is the concern that these works are not \textit{for} anything, not for a job or an application or a visible piece of content, a series of products released to do something in the world. A new digital toy is frequently out of reach for the vast group of people who depend on their existing technology to work for as long as they can make it do so, and therefore, these tools are designed to be resilient and basic. The idea is to permit this sort of advanced media to get to unexpected places, in places that are, specifically, not shiny. 

Ultimately, this sort of software development is about permission. Permission for people to do what they like in the spaces they need to occupy and use, including the digital space. The game jam, which is a locative, people-in-the-room phenomena, and the value of a small community which helps one another to develop, is reflected in the variety of games produced for the system. This is about exploring the possibilities of a space designed to share an experience through a personal connection.

There are different values permitted to different classes of entertainment. At a high level, art can afford to be alienating, and indeed is frequently valued more highly for its power of alienation than for any other thing. This is a distinction made especially true in video games, where the power of "fun" tends to be valued highly for its commercial properties. If a game is not "fun," all elements of its interactive powers of storytelling cease. This means that games which are not "fun" are widely called by other names - interactive digital art, for example.

screenPerfect is designed to permit the development of experiences - games - that are not only not necessarily "fun,"" but which may be narratively incomplete, or nonsensical, while still being absorbing. The tool can be perverted: perverse use is built in, with video copyright being at such a premium. It can be used to host experiences in galleries or in warehouses, by people with minimal technical knowledge and little ability to mask their normal online activities. This is a device to let people make maximum use of the devices they already have, to host a dance party on a subway or a massive art tour through a gallery. The demonstration content may be upsetting, but the access permitted is broad. This is about sharing things, for the better.


The question in this context becomes: how to best retain the monetary and chronological capital of artistic tool use, vision, and creative practice, while restoring the aura of presentation required to engage with art on its own terms? How to expand artistic tool use into new means of expression? How to make use of contemporary methods in a way that may remain accessible and on display for years to come?