Independent games are typically distributed through the internet, or rely on the internet for their entire lifecycle. This is problematic, not only because the shape of the engine dictates the shape of the experiences that can be produced. The internet is owned, mainly, by very few extremely wealthy people, and the technology is fragile, in that it is reliant on many external factors to survive, and on machinery with decreasing life-cycles \parencite{lisanotes}. There are many ways to lose access to the internet, from legal means such as France's HADOPI laws, by which whole households can have their access cut off, to a simple lack of bandwidth in an installation space. This causes problems for both exhibitions and archives, as art based on access to the external web can vanish with no warning. This is also unacceptable for institutional collection. The availability of web art combined with its unreliability devalues the work of the artists who have created it. Art that relies on the network is simultaneously omnipresent and vanishing, capable of accessing a mass audience and disappearing at the moment when a local audience is available.

Audience definition becomes important in this context. A browser-based or internet- distributed game has the possibility of reaching a very broad audience - millions of players. The artist has no guarantee of the context of their work in the view of the audience, beyond that it is likely to be screen-based, viewed on a personal or work machine. Perhaps this works: Internet artists such as Cory Arcangel – exhibited at the Whitney in 2011 - and installation works backed by major museums, such as The New Museum's Rhizome, have seen success and popular uptake. Whether or not screen-based art as it presently exists is effective is outside the scope of this paper, however. Within the scope of this work is that digital work is difficult to display outside the context of this mass market. It is also difficult to record the things that make more impressive offerings of net art – the massive collective performance art piece "Twitch Plays Pokemon" \parencite{twitchplayspokemon} for example – special, outside of being part of the specific moment in which they happen. If electronic art is to be included in large collections, or displayed privately, or reproduced such that it benefits mainly the artist rather than the distributor, there needs to be a means to display it that does not rely on external resource providers. This includes the easily-considered difficulty of network providers as well as the more challenging to contextualize power grid. Both are unreliable in the permanent sense, where the relatively small amounts of power and information (which are sometimes the same things) can actually be supplied locally.

The localization of a broad audience - how to supply a thousand or ten thousand people simultaneously with a single experience - is outside the scope of this paper. My design work instead addresses the question of how to bring a work built for broad distribution into a narrow context for better engagement via a system of resilient display. This system uses local resources rather than relying on the constant availability of a global supply.

A local supply of exhibition resources makes sense from the point of view of customised presentation of work. By controlling the media server and internet protocols for service directly, an artist can install their work where they like – including in contexts that would otherwise not have access to the broader internet at all. The idea that the internet is watching us as we watch the internet has gained potency in recent years, particularly with the revelation of data harvesting by major first world spy agencies such as the NSA and the GCHQ \parencite{guardiangchq}. The rise of a true panopticon system leads to questions about the implementation of technology. Where Foucault's Discipline and Punish was based on theoretical constructs, and the ever-popular 1984 posited a dark totalitarianism, 2014 saw instead the Ukranian government text message protesters that they were being watched for their part in civil disobedience \parencite{viceukraine}. These are no longer theoretical problems – they are pragmatic systems, a part of the landscape of fact.

As such, art which wishes to make use of the internet has the opportunity to provide a matter-of-fact system of resistance, by refusing to permanently link to the main channels. The privacy of the user can only be assured by permitting them the ability to reliably control distribution and display of their work. Because the internet is written in privileged, private languages – code – it becomes interesting to examine this idea, of privacy and resistance in the public sphere, through critical theory concerned with the play of language. The most interesting of these for the purpose of this work is Helène Cixous, whose most famous writing plays on language itself as a site of resistance and desire.

There is a sense of play in code: there are many, many ways to achieve a topically identical personal experience using software. The software choices that underly those experiences are largely invisible: they are the good housekeeping that allows the experience to happen at all. In order to learn the language, it must be revealed not in a compiled state – the state desktop language occupies – but rather in an uncompiled, or "interpreted" format. Web technology relies almost wholly on interpreted code, rather than compiled code. Viewing source code in a browser has been possible for twenty years, since NCSA Mosaic 2.0a3 [6]'s April 6th 1994 release \parencite{mosaic}.

This ability – to see the code, change it, post, and immediately view the effect of changes, without paying extra for a compiler and an assembly system, represents a sea change in how developers could learn about writing software. It meant the difference between a purposeful investment and the ability to pursue learning on a more personal schedule, and from there, an expansion to self-expression to the web we see today. With the advent of developer tools included standard in browsers, it has become even more straightforward to build and test software ideas quickly in an environment provided on every operating system. 

This relative openness on an independent system is key to the broader openness of code as a language for a wide audience, and from there, to a diversity of cultural production within this new creative sphere. The cognitive load of the inheritance of computer science as a discipline is much higher than the cognitive load of simply writing a program that works. It blocks access by requiring funding and time to learn something new. People who have little time cannot afford to acquire the skills to use a new and complex tool. This is problematic, because art production is difficult and time-consuming even without the boundaries raised by software challenges. The more limited and specific the skill set required to use contemporary software tools, the more difficult it is to include a diversity of voices in the cultural pro- duction of genuinely contemporary work. When artists are excluded from technology, culture splits on lines of privilege. There are artists who make art, and technologists, who make technology, but do not see themselves as particularly responsible for the ideas encoded in their work. 

Technology is not neutral. It is authored, and where there is authorship, there is a responsibility for ideas. The bulk of technical authorship acknowledged through formal means – peer review at large universities, high positions in large corporations – has been heavily restricted in a systemic fashion that recreates the society that first permitted these organizations to exist. This makes small resistances and large capture of technological means important. When large groups are left out of communication media, particularly those tasked with producing the language with which culture speaks to itself, there comes a disconnect in the public representation of our sense of self. The public representation of self becomes limited, and the experiences on offer follow these limitations, becoming narrower, and ultimately, perhaps less interesting.

The problem of interesting experiences is not trivial. Video games, especially video games featuring strong narrative and a lot of player agency, offer an economically advantageous distraction engine, a way to enact an artificial life during a period of declining general wealth. Allowing a diverse range of voices easy access to make their own games, their own alternate or idealized modes of being, is a way of making those voices more real, of offering an alternate human experience to the "asshole simulator" \parencite{bissell} genres manufactured at much higher budgets.

\section{Video and Reproducibility}
Television and video are another format that traditionally requires substantial capital - both monetary and Bourdieu's \textit{cultural capital} to access \parencite{bourdieu}. Acquiring editing and image-design skills to work with moving pictures is an expensive and time-consuming pursuit, much like software development. Once a video work is complete it can be distributed via the internet with almost no effort, provided the artist has access to broadband. At the same time as distribution has been democratized, production of video has become easier, leading to a polyphony of voices on the internet. 

The advent of major streaming and torrent sites, from YouTube to Vine to the Pirate Bay, has democratized video distribution to the point where it can be traded as words once were – or pirated, as the popular works of Dickens commonly were in early America \parencite{dickenscastillo}. Netflix's distribution model means that a year of filming work – in the case of House of Cards \parencite{houseofcards}, more than twenty hours of original television – has been redesigned to be consumed at the convenience of the audience. Spoilers now encourage watching the series inside a week, rather than over a month, or a year.

This moves the value of a given video experience from the control of the video producer to the audience. Rather than being restricted in a viewing experience to a theatre, the audience now decides where and how to consume popular works. Video is consumable on every kind of screen, especially on the smartphone screen. This permits acquisition of a broad audience, even as it shifts the context of the work.

A single smartphone in 2014 is more than powerful enough to supply most of the serving needs of previous video works, including branched narratives that once required many VCRs and multiple screens. As things become more open, according to Walter Benjamin \parencite{benjamin} they lose their aura, their singular magic, which means that accessing that magic becomes more challenging as the distribution of the work becomes easier. Partly, this seems to be a process of decontextualization: no matter how good a given film, it may be better in a theatre, en masse, because the theatre, its particular context, makes the experience of the film singular, even as the film itself is limitlessly reproducible.

The question in this context becomes: how to best retain the monetary and chronological capital of artistic tool use, vision, and creative practice, while restoring the aura of presentation required to engage with art on its own terms? How to expand artistic tool use into new means of expression? How to make use of contemporary methods in a way that may remain open and on display for years to come?
